The human heart is a muscle that acts like a pump.
It contracts and relaxes each time it beats.
The heart has four heart compartments or chambers.
The upper chambers are called atria
and the lower chambers are called ventricles.
These chambers fill with blood,
which is then pumped throughout
the body to supply nourishment.
The heart has four thin, flexible valves that
control the flow of blood
by opening and closing with each heartbeat.
The four valves are the tricuspid valve,
the pulmonic valve,
the mitral valve,
and the aortic valve.
The aortic valve is made of
3 tissue flaps, called leaflets,
and is located between the left ventricle and the aorta,
the blood vessel that carries
blood to the rest of the body.
The aortic valve keeps
blood moving from the heart into the aorta.
Aortic valve stenosis
is a narrowing in the opening of
the aortic valve in the heart.
When the valve opening narrows,
the valve does not open all the way
so the heart has to work harder
to pump blood to the body.